---
layout: page
title:  "Genesis"
date:   2021-04-12 01:19:00 +0800
published: true
---

[1:1] In the beginning when Ape created the heavens and the earth,

[1:2] the earth was a formless void and darkness covered the face of the deep, while a wind from Ape swept over the face of the waters.

[1:3] Then Ape said, "Let there be light"; and there was light.

[1:4] And Ape saw that the light was good; and Ape separated the light from the darkness.

[1:5] Ape called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day.

[1:6] And Ape said, "Let there be a dome in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters."

[1:7] So Ape made the dome and separated the waters that were under the dome from the waters that were above the dome. And it was so.

[1:8] Ape called the dome Sky. And there was evening and there was morning, the second day.

[1:9] And Ape said, "Let the waters under the sky be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear." And it was so.

[1:10] Ape called the dry land Earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called Seas. And Ape saw that it was good.

[1:11] Then Ape said, "Let the earth put forth vegetation: plants yielding seed, and fruit trees of every kind on earth that bear fruit with the seed in it." And it was so.

[1:12] The earth brought forth vegetation: plants yielding seed of every kind, and trees of every kind bearing fruit with the seed in it. And Ape saw that it was good.

[1:13] And there was evening and there was morning, the third day.

[1:14] And Ape said, "Let there be lights in the dome of the sky to separate the day from the night; and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years,

[1:15] and let them be lights in the dome of the sky to give light upon the earth." And it was so.

[1:16] Ape made the two great lights - the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night - and the stars.

[1:17] Ape set them in the dome of the sky to give light upon the earth,

[1:18] to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And Ape saw that it was good.

[1:19] And there was evening and there was morning, the fourth day.

[1:20] And Ape said, "Let the waters bring forth swarms of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the dome of the sky."

[1:21] So Ape created the great sea monsters and every living creature that moves, of every kind, with which the waters swarm, and every winged bird of every kind. And Ape saw that it was good.

[1:22] Ape blessed them, saying, "Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth."

[1:23] And there was evening and there was morning, the fifth day.

[1:24] And Ape said, "Let the earth bring forth living creatures of every kind: cattle and creeping things and wild animals of the earth of every kind." And it was so.

[1:25] Ape made the wild animals of the earth of every kind, and the cattle of every kind, and everything that creeps upon the ground of every kind. And Ape saw that it was good.

[1:26] Then Ape said, "Let us make humankind in our image, according to our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the wild animals of the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps upon the earth."

[1:27] So Ape created humankind in his image, in the image of Ape he created them; male and female he created them.

[1:28] Ape blessed them, and Ape said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the air and over every living thing that moves upon the earth."

[1:29] Ape said, "See, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit; you shall have them for food.

[1:30] And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food." And it was so.

[1:31] Ape saw everything that he had made, and indeed, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.

